[Music]
all right
um thank you all for joining today we
are here at saster annual 2020
at home to talk about underserved
markets for sas companies
my name is christy pitts i'm a general
partner at backstage capital
i'm joined here today by two of my
portfolio
ceos and founders sky and demola
so i'd like to hear um actually from
both of you if you could each introduce
yourselves and talk about
your background and what your company
does and then we'll get into it skye go
ahead
all right uh thanks christy i'm skye
kelly i'm the founder and ceo of avasar
we are a procurement platform that helps
government agencies
make the procurement process more modern
faster easier and also help more small
businesses
navigate that procurement process great
thank you skye demola
hey everybody my name is demola ogunda
payne i'm the co-founder and ceo of
civic eagle
we're a vertical sas company we provide
analytics and collaboration tools to
lobbyists and other policy professionals
within the corporate space
awesome all right so um originally when
we were
looking at putting this talk together
from my perspective i was thinking this
is like a government tech talk
but then actually in preparation with
sky and demola what i learned
is that we could look at this more as
civic tech so
there's a huge industry in both
installing the government and then also
supporting
government agencies and the work that
they create through the legislation
so we're going to talk about all of this
today why
civic tech is a great market to focus on
for sas
companies what some of the challenges
are in selling to that market
what it's like to build a team
addressing that market and then also
sky and demolish experience as founders
and
why they're building so um we're gonna
go ahead and get started
i'm gonna let skye go ahead and talk
about what it's like specifically to
sell into government so
um skye take it away yes thank you
christy
so i get asked the question all the time
why did we decide to sell to government
agencies and um oftentimes i ask myself
that same question
but one of the biggest uh reasons
and and one of the biggest i'd say
beneficial crisis on
governments is that governments are
super sticky customers
average ltvs and government are 15 plus
years
so if you can break into it it can be a
very lucrative business that where your
customers just stay with you
however it is hard to break into there
are network effects
i was told once before government
agencies love to be second
right no one really loves to be first so
once they find that something is working
uh somewhere else they do like to
replicate
uh that and sort of use those same
solutions so they often do share
uh those solutions but the sales process
can be long and then depending on your
business
it might be more beneficial for you to
either focus on local government
agencies
meaning city county states or federal
and we're going to talk about federal as
well because when i started we focused
on local government agencies
we're now focusing more on the federal
space i had some thoughts around
how hard it would be to sell to the
federal government and sort of steered
clear of it in the early days but
actually federal
turns out to be a really great target
for what we do i just wanted to make a
quick comment that
um similar to government venture lps are
super sticky customers
and they also operate from kind of a
sort of fomo
in a way where um you know they there's
a phrase when you're raising as
a venture investor that um if you're
investing on behalf of a pension fund
you don't get fired for taking the risk
but if you see that others are investing
then
all everything comes together so there's
some similarities between the two
industries
perfect so federal government spending
uh is actually
uh quite large especially in the r d
space which can be a great
way for you to get funding to test out
some new theories new ideas um
new applications
this the annual number ranges but this
is as of 2018 on the left-hand side of
2019 look at the chart
it's 135 billion per year it was split
between basic research
which as you can see on the chart on the
right hand side government um the
federal government is the largest funder
of bay state research
uh then there's applied research and
then there is more of the
development so again depending on your
focus area for your business
uh it can be quite lucrative and quite
beneficial for you
to get funding for the federal
government for basic research programs
and they have really made a focus on
making that process easier for small
businesses and innovative businesses
so there are a lot of different federal
government departments
but the department of defense really
spends the most
in r d funding you can see that chart
they spend a little bit over half
of all funding and they really have made
a very concentrated effort
um it's a mission imperative for them to
work with more small startup and
innovative companies
so they're trying to be very active in
this space those of you who
might be familiar with sbir or siber
grants i initially thought that that was
going to be a really hard process but it
turned out to be
relatively painless um and very quick
they're on expedited timelines now
so i and a question that we get asked
often is well what does the dod
purchase or what do they fund in terms
of research if we're not
creating warfighter technology will uh
will they fund us
we are a phase one uh contract awardee
for the department of defense and we're
procurement platform so it just gives
you an example of the breadth
of what they're looking at in terms of
research
uh sky can you actually while we're
still on this side can you talk a little
bit about your experience
on getting the sbir grant yes uh so
when wow it was actually one of our
investors who suggested it to us
and i took a look at it and it was a
very straightforward process
with hard timelines so a proposal
solicitation came out
had to do things like write a 15 page
people but they do use
specific structure on what they want in
each section so it's
very clear um uh sorry a five to ten
page white paper the 15 page slide that
can i tell you on each slide
what they want so we all have this
information about our businesses anyway
uh there's no guess work in it uh and
you just use
30 days to be able to submit that
solicitation and then it was about six
to eight weeks before you found out if
you won that phase one contract award
i went in having zero expectations that
we would actually
win this award um but we did and it
really gave us license to go out
and to get additional contracts with the
federal government
so once you won the award um is it
similar to a non-profit grant where the
funding is earmarked for specific
activities
are do you have license to spend the
funding within your company as you wish
what is the
um how does that work yes so there's a
there's
a phase one and there's a phase two um
and so for each phase
you outline in your proposal how you
want to spend the money and so for the
phase one it was mostly about trying to
get a phase two contract it was
really a business development sort of uh
grant
so that you can talk to different
agencies within the department of
defense
uh to see if you can find a customer to
buy up via
mou designer for a phase two grant and
that's part of your phase
two proposal you agree with the customer
but you really outline how you are going
to spend the money
and what is going to be the end result
what is going to be the technology that
comes out of that
what is the use case for the department
so you are really presenting what it is
and how you want to spend money awesome
okay i love money
all right demola i want to hear from you
can you talk about the political
technology industry please
yeah definitely so you know while skye
pointed out how big the federal
government funding r d industry is over
130 billion dollars a year
another component to that is the
political technology industry or the
civic tech industry
you know um the civic technology has
been something that people have been
talking a lot about over the last
probably four or five years there's been
a lot of civic tech tools that have come
out
but nobody really has a concrete
definition of what civic tech is and
then kind of what political technology
is
um so with political technology the way
to look at it and i'll talk about the
opportunities that exist in a moment
but the way to look at it are really in
in three categories
campaigns uh governance and then
lobbying and advocacy
or those lobbying and advocacy are a bit
synonymous all right um and and the
three those three sectors make up a 47
billion dollar industry domestically
here in the united states so again
campaigns and that's federal state local
campaigns
governance um that is selling tools that
can help
government better interact with their
residents with their citizens
and then lobbying which is helping
lobbyists policy professionals
advocacy groups interact with
legislative and regulatory information
to try to shape
um the government and the legislative
environment in a way that that may be
better for
on that organization or for that group
of people now the space that we work in
um at civic eagle
is lobbying before i get into into that
let me
kind of shift your your view to the
right that map that you see there and
that's the entire political tech
um landscape right the the companies
that are kind of making up this 47
billion dollar
a year market that are serving this
market and you'd be surprised it's
pretty
you know big mac right there's a lot of
different organizations
um that are doing this work that are
making a lot of money that are
helping kind of shape and change the
world uh shape and change the country at
the very least
with technology and with more
specifically sas
um the campaign text messages that many
of you are receiving right now are
powered
by um companies that are sas companies
uh that are in the campaign space and
there's dozens of them
um so when you see that text message
that peer-to-peer text message that's
coming through
from you know whatever presidential
campaign um uh
that is being powered by you know
scaling fast-growing venture-backed
sas company um when you
get that email message from your city or
from your state about something that's
going on that's coming from
a sas company that is servicing uh that
government entity
um so it's a really big dynamic space
with a lot of different players and
still a lot of opportunity
um to really get involved and be able to
do things that are interesting
um within the political technology uh
political technology industry
um now when it comes to to lobbying kind
of that third component lobbying an app
because the oftentimes lobbying gets
um somewhat of a bad rap and deservedly
so like we all from for many of us we've
probably seen
um you know house of cards if you
remember uh remy in that show he was
kind of like that that dc
excuse me k street uh you know federal
lobbyist that was
kind of doing a lot of things behind the
scenes and to try to like kind of pull
the
pull the strings and um that's you know
federal lobbyists kind of get a better
app but our state lobby state advocacy
groups and so
and also locally and they need
technology to to help them do the work
that they're doing
um and that's where you know we come in
and there are you know several players
that are really trying to innovate this
space
and make lobbying and advocacy um
something that that
is better right that can be executed
better and that takes in consideration
the communities and the organizations
that they serve so you know
for us at civic eagle we work with a lot
of different um
corporations with many different
non-profits that do advocacy work for
communities
uh with law firms and other lobbying
groups and other policy professionals
um but there's still space within that
category as well to try to really bring
innovation and
and in general what all what these three
things have in common
is unders is wrapping your your arms
around the understanding that
um government information can be
serviced
right you can take that information that
public sector information you can really
build businesses around them
um similar to anything around data
government information is simply data so
being able to understand that data
package it
figure out ways to create um solutions
for different stakeholders with that
data
is an opportunity that we saw at civic
eagle and that all the companies that
you see
in that map have also seen as an
opportunity as well to be able to
service that industry
our service this space and one of the
really cool and important things
um that kind of come along with that is
the fact that we
believe that we're also doing social
good right like we're actually making
organizations that do great um advocacy
work on behalf of communities more
powerful
that we're helping shape government and
shape the messaging that comes
from that comes from that in a way that
better reflects
um the united states better reflects the
communities that make up the united
states
um and that's something that that's
really fulfilling as well so political
technology isn't something that
um you know folks pay a lot of attention
to um but that is
really really really instrumental in the
way that
you know our country continues to to
progress because
these again campaigns governance
lobbying advocacy groups
um they are at the forefront of
government interaction and being able to
be a
technology provider that powers that
industry
is really important um so that's uh
that's my slide for for this
conversation happy to
either take some questions from q a or
pass it off to you christy
great thanks demola i have one follow-up
question for you from the slide
so um let's let's play this through for
a moment
when um so i was thinking about the
example you gave from house of cards and
remy
and effectively the way i understand um
lobbying
as a lay person or as a citizen is that
once a lobbyist is successful in either
uh in getting legislation passed
then organizations have to respond to
that new legislation right
yeah so the way to really look at it is
um when
legislation is first drafted whether at
the federal or state level
um it's not immediately just like
written and then
you know ghost and then go through the
legislative process there are a lot of
people that are involved in the shaping
and the amendments that go into
that piece of legislation a lot of
different stakeholders there's community
stakeholders
excuse me like us i can go in and have a
conversation all this information
again is public um there are lobbyists
that have that are representing
different organizations that go in and
share their opinion on maybe things that
can be changed in that legislation to
make it
here to um to their organization or to
their industry
and they're also advocacy groups that do
the exact same thing that look at
a piece of legislation that that has
been drafted or sponsored and proposed
um again at the federal estate level um
and want their opinion to be heard on it
as well and they're representing maybe a
community or
some sort of like interest organization
or advocacy organization
um so it's really a lot of stakeholders
that are coming in and trying to make
sure that their voice is heard in the
shaping
of that legislation and then yeah
oftentimes once that bill is acting
what's that legislation or that bill is
actually passed and signed into law by
that you know by the legislative body
and then that that um that governor
at the state level of the president at
the federal level um people may try to
you know
change that right they maybe not like
what that law
that that new law um has proposed or
what it's doing and that starts the
legislative process all over again you
have to actually go through the
legislative process to change laws
that's really the point
of legislation is to actually change the
law that's on the books
by creating a new law or by changing
that law um so that that's kind of the
way that it works
and and again like our solution our
product helps um the organizations and
the lobbyists and the possible
professionals that do this work do it
more collaboratively
i'm having an analytics tool that helps
them be able to manage the work that
they're doing and know what's going on
at the federal state and local levels
great thank you
add one more thing just an alternative
use case for lobbyists because we
actually use
lobbyists as well and it's not for
legislation it's just for navigating
government
so when we started um we were trying to
do work with the city of la
and it is very complex uh and political
it was actually a government employee at
the city of la
who suggested that we work with
lobbyists in order to be able to
navigate
and and find the right customers right
the right decision makers at a
at an organization as big and as complex
as that so
um and just a a different use case you
know while they don't help us push
legislation they help us figure out who
the decision makers are who cares about
what what we do and what we offer and
who would be the best customers for us
for some of the largest organizations
awesome thank you all right so we're
going to jump into
um takeaways so um sky i'll go to you
first
great so yes as i mentioned government
customer is very sticky
um but if you're going after the
strategy it's harder to try to displace
incumbent solutions because government
agencies are such sticky customers they
tend to stick with their
internal solutions or incumbent
solutions for a long time so it's much
better to go after
brand new spaces um or a different twist
uh on on the spaces or the problems that
they need to solve
local governments can be easy to reach
in a small number but much harder to
to scale effectively without a large
sales team now if you do have a large
sales team that makes it much easier
or i've seen some uh solutions that are
just truly in red hot markets
uh truly tackling a a big need
in a new space that can scale much
faster
and then lastly federal government
agencies they are actively seeking
startups um and they're trying to reduce
their processes to make it easier to
work with them because
it is imperative for them to bring on
new
innovation and uh what's the department
of defense the dod as i mentioned
being the uh primary use case of the
primary ones pushing that but within the
dod there's
there's the air force there's the army
there's the navy there's military
there's
a lot of acronyms uh incident nga uh
national geospatial
organizations and all of that so i would
suggest that um don't
don't do what we did which is just shy
away from it
early on because we just thought it was
really hard um depending on your
solution it can be
really effective for you thank you yeah
so three takeaways for me
and it's really around building a
business with public data and the first
one is public sector
data is valuable to the private sector
so whether it's municipal information
and data whether
it's information about legislation like
what we do
there's a lot of opportunity in creating
products and solutions
for the private sector by utilizing
public sector information and data
second is government inefficiencies
equals an opportunity
so a lot of uh the stickiness that
sky alluded to when it comes to um the
public sector into government when
you're selling to government and
building products for government
um can sometimes lead to um them being
inefficient in the long term right over
you know 10 15 20 years span
and then being able to understand that
that is another opportunity either to
again sell to government or to create
products
uh by um looking that as a
as an arbitrage opportunity right for
the for the private sector
um and then third is that political tech
is a great way to impact democracy for a
lot of folks that are probably joining
this call
um you're interested in how can you have
a social impact as well
in creating political technology
solutions finding opportunities not just
limiting it to
you know um uh what i call you know
citizen engagement tech or or resident
tech which is like direct to
you know somebody you know individual to
engage like i think that's a very
limited scope there are tons of other
ways
for you to be able to have an impact on
democracy by looking at kind of what the
bigger picture is around
again governance around campaigns around
legislation
and then creating products that can help
improve democracy
awesome all right so we're gonna we're
gonna hit on this last point
in just a moment but um i want to
transition into the next part of our
conversation today so we're gonna go
into q a i have
questions for both of you and then we're
gonna open up to questions from people
who are on the live stream
so on this last point that you made
demola about um political tech being a
way to impact democracy
can you talk more about your background
um what is it
that led you to launch civic evil and
what do you feel
uh the impact of your product on society
will be
once you are at scale yeah so you know
i uh i'm an immigrant from nigeria moved
to the us when i was six
um you know grew up really having a
more global perspective and a
perspective on how
to kind of maximize the opportunities
that democracy gives us
i mean that capitalism also gives us and
trying to figure out a way to you know
create
technology and create solutions um that
have a net positive
impact on on democracy um so that's kind
of always been my viewpoint just from
growing up and having that more like a
global perspective around
what different countries do um from a
governance perspective
um and you know for me you know starting
civic eagle
uh and kind of originated from you know
feeling of wanting to
you know be in the be a part of this of
a solution in the moment
um on the heels of michael brown being
killed in ferguson missouri
um and feeling like you know what are
the ways that i can actually like
you know make an impact and make the the
country and the world a little bit
better
um and for me it was um you know this
was starting to make eagle
um really figuring things out around
that space um
and trying to again leave the the
country a little bit better
um and again you know one of the most
fulfilling things around building a
solution in the political technology
space
is the fact that you can see tangible uh
actual
impact on the organizations and the
customers that that
you're serving about half of our
customers are are for-profit and the
other half are non-profit
and i'm most fulfilled by helping the
nonprofit organizations that are doing
really great social impact and
advocacy work be better able to be
better equipped and able to navigate the
the political um lobbying and advocacy
space
by utilizing our technology thank you
so when your customers are using the
technology i think um
i'm just thinking back to some insider
information i have
about civic eagle being an investor and
some newer slide decks and i think that
one thing that i've seen before is how
much
more efficiently your customers are able
to work together
and more collaboratively they're able to
work when when they have your product
which is called onview
so uh what is it like for them before
they have the product versus after
and um do you see that like what their
what do you see their feedback
yeah it's 8 23 a.m pacific time anybody
watching
so um hopefully you got the gist of what
i was trying to say
yeah i mean the the north star metric
that we use
for for non-profits is
the amount of time the percentage times
saved when it comes to
finding identifying and analyzing
legislation
so our customers see about a 65
reduction on the nonprofit side
and the amount of time that it takes for
them to identify legislation that
is important to that organization or to
their their policy area
um and then the amount of time it takes
for them to analyze it and kind of
figure out like
what their best strategy is and um on
the high end we've seen
folks save 80 um in terms of reduction
in time doing that work and that matters
a lot
right like non-profits are not you know
they're not necessarily flushed with
cash
um advocacy groups are not flushed with
cash so being able to save them that
time
um being able to help help them you know
more
like allocate that time to directly to
the actual lobbying work and meeting
with lawmakers
meeting with their their community
members makes a pretty big difference
great thank you so much demola sky i
have a similar question for you
um what like what's your background what
led you to start avisar
what's the impact of avasara at scale
yes um so i am a serial entrepreneur
at glenn for punishment and avasar is my
second
tech company and i've always been
interested in how do you alleviate
wealth inequality along racial and
gender lines
it's just something that has been
pervasive for me throughout my life
based on how i've grown up
and and just seeing the inequalities
that exist
and so i was working at um fortune 500
companies at t
disney and espn and
saw just i saw firsthand the experience
of how life-changing it can be for small
businesses and startups to get
really lucrative contracts um with these
big organizations and how
it can propel you to success but also
seeing the discrepancy if you've got
access
to those contracts and the networks uh
that it takes because it was mostly
white male founders
that i was seeing come through get these
contracts so it really started avasara
with the lens of wanting to
level that playing field and democratize
that access and
it was not our intention to go into the
government space specifically
but we found that there was the need
there was the opportunity and they were
willing to
work with us in terms of being early
stage and pilots
and they're also have at the local
government agency level
of the federal as well requirements to
work with small and minority and
women-owned businesses so from a mission
perspective
it was aligned uh and really just wanted
to change that landscape you know
procurement
is a multi-uh trillion dollar
industry if you look across government
and the private sector
and so if we can get more of that money
going to
minority and women-owned businesses it
can really make a huge
difference great
so um can you talk about when so
for a minority owned a female owned
business
or a woman owned business when they're
looking to get a contract
with a government um to fulfill an rfp
what is the process like without avasar
yeah so we tackle a couple of different
issues within
this process because the process is
brought with issues
so at the local level
getting certified as a minority of
women-owned business gives you a
preference um a bid preference which
means essentially a discount
on on your rate when you are trying to
propose a solution and responding to an
rfp
at the local government agency level so
they will take whatever bid that you
give and depending on the municipality
and their rates they will discount it by
anywhere from five to ten percent which
makes you more competitive
uh in terms of that bid specifically
because they're trying to work with
uh more minority and women-owned
businesses so
just the certification process in
general can be a nightmare
on average it takes companies around six
months to even compile that
documentation and be able to effectively
submit
and government agencies are seriously
backlogged in terms of processing
those certifications um you know i've
seen it as bad as
a backlog of over 400 days to
actually get a certification it was so
bad
that the same people who were applying
for these certifications were actually
applying for their renewal certification
before they got certified in the first
place
and so we were able to take that
processing time down for
from 400 plus days to on average between
10 to 14 days
to process these certifications through
some
crowdsourcing that we do and then on the
small business side we took that process
down from
six months to seventy percent of our
vendors uh submitted certification
within seven days
and 30 to submit within the same day
so that's a significant time savings on
both sides
um the rfp process in general can be
confusing the discoverability and the
access level of it
just not even knowing when there are
rfps or rfis
that are available to you and having to
navigate many different solutions
and then understand how to submit bids
on many different processes
but something that we're also starting
to get more into now
is really even on the government agency
side and this is at the local level as
well as the federal level
a lot of government agency employees
don't even know their own rules
on procurement so what can they procure
with
what vehicle when and how
do they need to just get three bids do
they need to make it public
um can they use an i.t umbrella
agency or agreement in order to
facilitate that
so in order to solve this problem we
need to solve it on both sides
um and and that component of really even
helping the government agencies
better understand and how to procure
different items faster is a huge time
savings and beneficial really to both
sides of the marketplace in the equation
thank you so i just want to like hit on
a couple of takeaways
from this last um bit of the
conversation that we've been having
so for both of you uh when your solution
is adopted you're saving
your customers significant amounts of
time and
that's common with sas solutions
you're taking outdated processes
bringing
information analytics and software to
the table in order to improve efficiency
but i think what's really important
about this conversation specifically
is that when you're saving your
customers time um
that has an impact on society and so
you know um sky for avastar what that
means
is that small businesses that are owned
by women and minorities have an easier
time responding to rfps and rfis
they have an easier time getting
certified and local governments
and federal government has an easier
time contracting with them and for
civic eagle that means that nonprofits
and advocacy groups are able to more
effectively
um utilize their time because they
better understand the legislation that's
affecting them and so the impact of that
on all three of us and and people
watching especially if
you're in the united states is that the
adoption of sas tools
in the civic tech space can make our
lives better as citizens
and so i just wanted to hit on that
because oftentimes when
you know solving for different problems
in different sectors
and it's important to consider what the
impact is of your product at scale
and solving and solving problems in this
sector means that
um the impact could could potentially be
you know everybody in a society so
i think that's really impressive and
inspiring and i and it's something that
you know i think about as your investor
and so i wanted to make sure
to highlight that for those of everyone
that's tuning in
and i wanted to also switch gears a
little bit so when we think about
impact it's often marketed as a way to
attract
team members um i think i've seen so
many
articles and listicles about like
millennials and gen z
don't want to go to work they want to
have a career saving the world
so um that's a way to segue to what it's
been like to recruit and grow your teams
as sas companies building in this space
so i'd love to hear from both of you
um what your experience has been like
recruiting um
what it's been like to grow your team
and and any challenges or things that
you'd like to highlight here
yeah um i can i can jump into that i
think
you know growing a team that is serving
as a
as a sas company a vertical sas company
um
that is is pretty focused on again being
vertical sas on like this on
the the industry and the customer
segments that we're going
after um has made it very easy to
identify
or easier than i suppose it would be to
identify talent and passion and as an
early stage startup that's
one of the most important things right
identifying talent and identifying
um you know culture and passion for the
product and the business that you're
trying to build
um so because we're in that space we you
know enough in a space that again this
niche is vertical
um uh it's i think it's made it easier
to
to identify that that talent and
identify that culture and passion fit
the other thing too is that you know
we're building a solution that
has downstream impact so it's really
important that
our company reflect society as a whole
so because of that we have a very um
diverse
founding team a very diverse team in
general
um company that we've built um where
there's representation from
all different socioeconomic backgrounds
representation from all different races
representation from all different
um sexual preferences um so it's been
a a great opportunity to build a
business that reflects
to build a company and a business that
reflects society in the united states
as a whole and i think one of again one
of the things about being vertical sas
but then even being vertical sas within
this space
um is that you can have that you can
find those very focused and passionate
people for
the company that you're trying to build
do you see
just a quick follow-up there do you see
that there's any common theme in terms
of background
um for the people that are on your team
you know what there really isn't um in
terms of you know kind of professional
background
or or um uh academic background
um there are folks on our team that come
from google there are folks on our team
that are
you know lifelong civic hackers um there
are folks on our team that have a more
academic
background you know they have multiple
professional degrees there are folks on
our team that have been lifelong
entrepreneurs um
so it's pretty broad i think if there is
one commonality it's it's that passion
for
for you know being able to build a
company that's venture backable
and that can also scale impact uh can
scale from uh you know
provide financial returns to our
investors but can also again have that
you know social return to society um
so if anything that's really the only
thing that unites us all otherwise it's
a pretty
um a pretty diverse group of people both
in the way that we look
uh but then also in the backgrounds that
we all bring to the table which again is
important right like we're building a
solution that has really important
downstream impact on society
um so having that diversity of thought
and then also the diversity of talent
and the diversity of
uh of race and ethnic background and
social economic background
plays a pretty important role and it's
made us stronger
it's made it made us be able to grow
really fast it's made us be able to
create a solution that works
fine product market fit earlier um so i
think that's reflected
on uh on our achievements so far
awesome skye what about you yeah i don't
have much more to
add they sum it up uh very nicely i mean
i think we've had much more success
um with mission driven people with
non-mission-driven people
we are a procurement platform so um you
know we have worked with some people who
want that mission-driven because they
have some experience in what it is that
we're doing but we've had much more
success when you are mission driven
um and selling to government uh
is not for everybody right so we've had
a lot more successful people who
get excited about the idea of being
government contractors
versus not it's not like you're um
it's not like i guess your typical
thought process when you think of
a tech startup that's selling to the
private sector or selling to consumers
it's government agencies are structured
um they can be
they can be treated but we're selling to
governments especially as we get more
into the federal government space so
people will get excited about that um uh
you've had more success with it and
really like
working but it can be really fun and
actually really rewarding so
that's the only other thing i'll add
besides what already
very nicely summed up awesome i think
you were reading my mind sky because
the last gear that we were going to
switch to to talk about was sales
so um just to recap we've been talking
so far about the impact of the companies
what it's been like building your teams
and then now um just wanted to sell
talk about sales for a moment so
i think you just mentioned this like
selling the government is notoriously
um sales cycles are notoriously long
it's a tough process
i have been in more than one
conversation with another investor
who says that they don't like to invest
in
sas companies that have government as a
customer specifically for this reason
so i'd love to learn about more about
your sales process at abusar
what have you learned along the way and
you know you talked about this already
about
approaching federal government as a
customer
versus local government is there
anything else you would do differently
if you could go back in time
to earlier days in the company yeah that
would be the primary thing i would have
gone
after federal much much sooner um
yes uh i'm not gonna sugarcoat it the
sales process for governments can be
long but really if you think about it
more enterprise customers they're almost
just as long
uh and just as crazy to navigate and
they don't have
a the structure changes a lot more
in terms of the hierarchy and who's in
what position in the private sector
versus in the public sector people tend
to
stay in their roles for a lot longer and
their organization charts that are
typically public you can
find your way to get to the appropriate
people
at government agencies because they are
government employees
so that process makes it a little bit
easier we've learned a lot
in this process we've learned about
thresholds
budgets and budget authority uh and
keeping your sales price under uh our
budget authorities to expedite the sales
cross process
selling to departments as opposed to
trying to sell a solution
agency-wide going after smaller agencies
versus larger agencies depending on your
solution
um in your price points there are there
are tricks of the trade
thing that you can use and it just
really is dependent on
uh what your tolerance is what your
funding level is if you
can get a big sales team to to sell at a
higher price point that's great
if you want to start off at a lower
price point it does make it a little bit
easier to scale but it does make it
harder than to grow
your price point um as you continue
building your business because they
become psychologically accustomed to
paying a smaller amount
for your products and services so
there's there's really different ways to
uh to go about this and approach it um
and for the again for the federal
government
um it is i think in my opinion
given where we're at right now for us uh
it is an easier process than selling to
local governments because
they do have bigger budgets they do have
a bigger need for it
and they are actively working to make
the process
uh easier as i mentioned
awesome thank you skye um demola
you've mentioned that half of about half
of your clients are for-profit
and half are non-profit when you look at
the for-profit side of your client base
how do you help those customers adopt
onview are you using
similar sas like are you using typical
sas methodology
um is there anything that you would
consider kind of a hack that you've put
together
yeah typical sas methodology um you know
typical
four to six months sales cycle with
vertical size so we don't have to go
through the entire enterprise we're
selling it to a specific department
um we try to do a landing experience
strategy once we're in there
and upsell them we do it a little bit
different um
one of the things we don't do we don't
price per seat we price per um
consumption of data based off the
consumption of legislative data um so a
little bit different there but some sas
companies do that
um so you can you know for for us
because it on the corporate side it is
like really truly
um you know vertical sas enterprise
vertical sas uh
um you know we can we follow general
you know best practices and principles
that work um with a little bit
of you know sprinkles on top because of
the type of people that were
were we're talking to the other thing
too um with you know scott mentioned
how you know folks in in government uh
you know operate a certain type of way
well you know
this space is very transient so somebody
that's working in government one day
is you know two weeks later a lobbyist
at a corporation the next day and that
mentality right that that thought
process falls with them and the next day
they're
working you know somebody that comes out
of public policy school is working at
you know a non-profit that does great
advocacy work for
um for women and then the next day um is
you know back working as a corporate
lobbyist for you know big you know oil
and gas company right like it's very
this this industry is very transient and
and those folks that work in this
industry
and we have to be very aware of like
what their
buying methodology and psychology is
so even though we have some like very
you know standard
vertical sas corporate selling
principles um
there is a little bit of nuance there
because a lot of these folks do come
from government you know are moving
and kind of have different different
ways of doing things that aren't that
aren't traditional
um and that's something that we've
learned over time something to this days
great all right so we're going to go to
the thank you slide for everybody
that's tuning in and i'm just going to
do a quick recap
of our conversation to date so um
we walked through um process selling to
government
and also in the political space we
talked about
impact of the companies what it's like
building a team and also around sales
process
so now i'm going to stop sharing my
screen and we're going to go to audience
q a
so bear with me for one moment
um all right great so i think um
on okay sorry
i'm just gonna have some background
noise coming through but if there's any
um chat questions similar sky if you
want to go ahead and take them
and i'll be off of you in just a moment
uh okay so first question for me
looks like how are you able to balance
mwdbe 8a certifications with receiving
venture capital uh yes so
for four certifications um
as a minority and women-owned business
there are thresholds that you have to
meet
and mostly it's 51 ownership
for minority status or women-owned
status
now if you do have investors that are
minorities or women they can also
count towards that so it doesn't just
have to be the founder
but there are organizations um like
nmsdc national supplier minority
development council who recognizes this
issue and the fact that we are are
venture capital-backed and there are
more african-american-owned businesses
that are venture capital
etc so they've actually have a special
program where you
have to just have 30 percent
minority owned status in order to
qualify for that certification
so again that really depends uh on
your investors and it's much easier to
get at the early stage
but investors don't like it if your
contracts or the majority of your
contracts
are just eight aid contracts because
then as you continue to grow the
business if you get more venture capital
uh then you lose that 51 status
so while it can be beneficial in the
early days i'd say just have a strategy
um about expanding outside of that or to
a certain point especially with sas
like you don't have to the 80s can get
you in the door
which it doesn't have to be what is
dependent upon that
for a for a contract which is a way that
you can
balance both right so we always talk
about how we're minoring women on
business but
um our contracts are reliant upon that
uh okay do starters particularly black
female founders need to register a small
business or something in particular to
go after
uh cyber grants no you do not have to
register
as a small business in order to go after
subur sbir
grants they will ask that you check a
box basically
and verify that you are a small business
and meet the standards
and in each civil application or open
open topic contract they will stipulate
what those standards are
it's usually 500 employees or less or
there can be a revenue threshold
depending on
the type of organization that you're in
so
you don't have to have that status in
order to go after super grants
christie yeah i'm gonna jump in real
quick because
i saw in the um participant participant
group there's somebody that raised their
hand
and a question that had come through
from this person says we are thinking
about trying a freemium play which i
have not seen much of in government yet
any experience around that is a sales
tactic in this space so i'd love to hear
from both of you and i also have an
opinion about this
sure i will go um we we looked at
freemium in the beginning uh and i know
companies that do do the premium model
with government to varying levels with
this of success
i will talk about my viewpoint um on why
we didn't do premium but that is not to
say that freemium doesn't work
for governments what we found for our
sector is that
governments value what they pay for and
that it is
harder to get them to take you more
seriously
if they're not paying for it um then
it is if you are a budget um or if you
are a line item on their budget
uh and continuously working with them
they have a point person they are
invested
into it um and so trying to get them to
do
something for free it doesn't speed up
the process because ultimately you still
need that decision maker and if you're
trying to go after like the end user um
who's more junior doesn't have the
decision making authority to use it for
a certain amount of time or get a
certain level of access to it
and then have to go after that end user
longer term it can be just as long
now it can ultimately you know i think
it works best and i've seen it work best
in those red hot markets that we're
talking about where there's a
very specific new need that is
widespread
across the country that you have a brand
new solution for
in in departments like transportation
for example because they often have a
lot of authority to just be able to
select whatever solutions work best for
them so
it absolutely can work it's just for us
it wasn't the tactic that we took
cool demola do you have any thoughts on
that no nothing to add i think scott
hit on it perfectly well it's not
something i would do um as well
we actually do have some government
clients um that's not the space we
typically sell to but we have you know
we have a few um
is not something i would do for all of
the reasons uh sky articulated
awesome thanks yeah uh so i'm gonna hit
on that too
i am not contrarian
in this particular moment um i
don't think a freemium play i would not
recommend a freemium play
and as an investor um at backstage we
invest
across all sectors consumer and b2b
and and effectively the sooner that you
can have
revenue in place the more optionality
you have as a founder
and that's just like general business
model
advice specifically also i think
the psychological impact of trying to um
raise prices or go from free to a paid
model
it's tough because as skye mentioned not
like in the government sector
specifically having budget allocated
towards your product
is is critical to your long-term success
but even in the private sector
um having the moving from
uh free to paid is friction that you're
adding
into your adoption process and then
finally
the other piece that i would say here is
um as somebody that used to be
in procurement in a corporate
environment
oftentimes freemium is
has very little trust when it comes to
i.t insecurity
and so this is another barrier to
adoption from the very beginning so
while freemium may seem like it would
help people to adopt and then
land and expand or help your customer to
adopt and then land and expand
in fact um being free to begin with can
actually cause a greater level of
scrutiny
and resistance to adopting the product
so um that's just my two cents
from what i've seen and then speaking of
landing and expanding
we have a question that says can you
talk about the importance of selling
under the threshold to get started
landing and expanding and shortening the
sales cycle demola you mentioned
landing expanding can you talk about
that yeah
i think shelly was asking it
specifically about um government and i
do have a thought on
i'll just quickly share i know we don't
have much time i'll quickly share
you know what we do from a corporate
perspective and also i mean um you can
also make this work obviously selling
the government
um but like instead of freemium it's
better to
you know go in sell and then like expand
like try to get it under that budget and
then figure out how you can grow
your you know grow that customer out and
then i think what shelly is referring to
is that there's a threshold in
government
in terms of when they actually like have
to trigger an rfp if you're going in and
when you're trying to sell a product
directly to a government
agency or entity um i know a lot about
that but scott knows a lot more so
with the little time we have left i'll
pass that to you
thank you i do know quite a bit about
this topic um
so there's there's the perception of
what government agencies have to do and
then there's reality and those two
things don't always
mirror especially when it comes to i.t
so
a big way a big factor that government
agencies
get around to having to trigger the rfp
process is
is by having these i.t master services
umbrella agreements now you as a sas
company you can become essentially a sku
under an i.t services master
umbrella agreement so there is a
provider
and there are a lot of these providers
um
that they they have the contract the
government agency has the contract with
the
it provider and then if you are skew on
there
you can just be purchased by any agency
because it's not direct with you it's
direct with their master
services provider not everyone knows
this
and this is why i mentioned again even
within government agencies who have this
and they have these
master services agreements for this
particular reason they don't always know
that
so they'll often trigger an rfp just as
a default
reflex because they feel like that's
what they have to do
when it and specifically sas works
works differently so needless to say one
educate your customer
um because oftentimes they won't know
that about their own organization
and we've had to help get them to the
right people to
tell them within the organization that
this is an option um
but two staying under their budget
thresholds which can
vary wildly from 150 000
um at larger agencies to 25
000 at smaller agencies um to even i've
seen like some that are 5
000 but that's more at state agencies
which doesn't really make a ton of sense
um so so know
what your budget what what your agencies
or department's budget threshold is
because it can vary by department
as well um and that can again get you in
the door one thing that i didn't mention
is is much faster and much easier to get
pilots
um to work with these government
agencies but you can charge for pilots
they can be paid pilots we have charged
for every pilot that we had
um and so with pilots they actually
don't need to
um trigger the rfp process either and
that gets you in the door
where you can get hung up and we've had
this problem happen a couple of times is
you have to be super clear and agree
with the the person up front what
happens post the pilot
right so are you going to trigger an rfp
process
um can you just get three bids if it's
under the budget threshold process then
can we just get a contract
directly so just make sure you know that
up front but
again just making sure that you're
getting paid everything you do
with um with government agencies but the
budget threshold is a decent way
now uh another thing to think about if
you're thinking about that sort of
landing span by staying under the budget
threshold
is that all of this all your pricing
with government agencies especially if
you've responded to an rfp becomes
public domain
so other agencies will know what you've
charged an agency
and so there could be consistency issues
if you're trying to go after
you know bigger agencies versus smaller
agencies if you have that per user model
then
it can make sense but just keep that in
mind
as well fabulous
all right um we just have a few minutes
left and there's a question that just
came in and i'd love to hear from both
of you on this
it says how long did it take to create
your mvp and who was the original team
yeah for us it took uh about a year
i mean not i'd say like eight months to
get to mvp um
happy to have backstage as our very
first investor helping us get to
get to that point um but uh but yeah it
took about eight months nine months and
then the team that did it it was you
know three of us
essentially um so the founding team kind
of putting an mvp together before being
able to then like
bring on somebody looking he was very
lucky for us we had um a technical
person as part of our
um founding team so we were able to like
you know be able to get that mvp done
and one of our founding team members is
also a designer
um so like that obviously is different
than if you're a solo founder and you
need to you know bring out somebody onto
your team and hire them and pay them and
that type of thing
um our team was able to kind of make
those short-term sacrifices go without
um getting paid but you know generally
bootstrapping um
uh so yeah like i'd say eight months
nine months and then
immediately once you have something that
is sellable start charging like that was
our thing like get something that could
get something that somebody will pay for
even if it's just a little bit of money
um solve some sort of problem um that
that we can charge for
and we were able to do that basically
within eight months
awesome skye yeah so um
it depends on your definition of mvp
so our true true mvp
was a slide deck so we hadn't built
anything
and we started pitching off of this
slide deck um
and we got our first customer sort of
um pilot agreement with
that slide deck so we really didn't cost
us
uh very much at all but we you know
i'll tell them this amongst friends um
we didn't pitch that we didn't have the
solution available it was just
some people in government um our
technology can be technology adverse so
no one was asking to see that
well they just wanted to see the slide
act so that's what we showed them
uh and then we built it afterwards now
because we
kind of knew that governments take a
long time once we got someone to agree
to do a pilot that's when
we started building and we were able to
build it in time for the pilot to
uh to be live by the time the pilot
started so
that that's how we did it yeah hustling
that's amazing all right um thank you
like i love it all right thank you both
so much um
last thoughts final thoughts on this
space for anybody that could be watching
or watching the replay
yeah i would say just uh if you want to
sell to governments
uh start as early as possible start
getting people excited start
understanding um the budget thresholds
understanding who will be
your who make the decisions and really
honing in on what it is that they want
not even what's good for them because
sometimes those two things don't
coincide but what it is that they want
so the earlier that you could start
the better yeah and i'll say um
it's definitely a complex space to get
into
you got to do your research you got to
study it you got to know what kind of
what all the ins and outs are
um which is good for me because that
means less competition
so you know fine with that but i think
bad for democracy
bad for the country we don't have more
people trying to push the envelope and
innovate in the space make things better
so
definitely encourage folks you know if
it's something if you're a technologist
if you're looking at solving
problems in the space hopefully maybe
that's why you join where you're
watching this the recording of it
um just learn about it you really got to
do your research understand it
and you'll be better off for it just
like any other industry awesome thank
you tamala
all right um that's it i'll just recap
real quickly so
we're talking about a huge industry here
addressable market
billions both in the civic tech space
utilizing political information and then
also selling directly to government
we're talking about huge impact so when
you address this market
and you build a product you're not just
you know building a sas company you're
affecting society and
yeah adventure-backable opportunities so
i'm really thrilled that backstage can
be an investor in both of you
and both of your companies and thank you
to saster for giving us this opportunity
to share more about
building in the civic tech space this
morning all right
take care thanks for tuning in thank you
[Music]
you